Global variables should be avoided?

In 1973, in the peak of languages like Fortran and Cobol, an article entitled "Global Variable considered harmful" have written by W. Wulf and Mary Shaw has already warned that the use of not local variables is an important factor in a hard understand program.  Currently, after 50 years and the advent of many programming languages and development paradigms, this warning remains valid.
Understand how the global variable a variable that could be accessed and modified all the software or in your majority.
With this definition, they seem harmless. After all, what harm can cause have a property that is visible in any part of the software? As an answer: many and the most difficult to find, understand and correct.
Maybe the main problem and the root of them all is that the use of global variables creates an implicit coupling between the modules who use them. And the word implicit could be changed to dangerous in this context because these couplings are not well represented in the application design.
A global variable can just appear in a code snippet: it was not defined, it is not in a parameter list and does not exist a simple way to discover what happened with its. Any rule about its use can be broken or forgotten at any time.
It is possible too, that a local variable is declared with the same name as a global variable, causing more problems of code understanding, because we could be using global variable thinking to be a local variable or vice versa.
That means with you want to know a global variable do, you need to search your definition, that can be in any place. After this, you need to search everywhere that the value could be changed. If you are lucky, there won't be many.
And if there are many? The fact is that when a global variable is available, any developer, in any module of the application could use it. What initially was a facilitator could be a huge trap as the software grow, that the time change, that refactorings are done.
And the unit tests? Extremely complex, when they are possible. It is practically impossible to know the initial state of a global variable when the test is executed. The less testable your application is, the less will be the security at the moment that the refactoring is necessary.
And more... Applications with a considerable number of variables with scope bigger than necessary tend to degrade a lot with the time. Bugs appear unexpectedly in inimaginable places and they are hard to diagnose. The effort in refactorings increases considerably because it is necessary to track the use of the global variables. The reuse is impractical.
If it is inevitable, has in your application, mitigate the risk. You can use a name convention that makes it easier the recognize a global variable. You can a file with all global variables of the project. 
